## What is this website for ? 

- [This](https://github.com/BU-IE-582/Bugra-Taksuk-Progress-Journal) is the Buğra's Progress Journal for the course IE582, it includes examples, related codes and report regarding the course material which is Statistical Learning for Data Mining

## Homework 1
- [In this homework](Homework1.html) we are asked to investigate the dimensionality and sample size effects on a dataset and also to do some manipulations on images. In the first part, I defined functions to generate uniformly random numbers with different dimensions and sizes. After generation, I performed some operations like counting the numbers to find the fraction of points inside a n-sphere inscribing n-cube. To find the distances between the points, I used euclidian distance from scipy library. Using those information, I estimated the number pi. Lastly, I calculated the minimum distances of each point to each point in 100 extra instances and tried to show the curse of dimensionality. In the second part, I performed some manipulations on an image of mine in the size of 512x512 pixels using the matplotlib library. 

## Homework 2
- [In this homework](Homework_2 (4).html) we are asked to perform some dimensionality reduction operations via PCA and MDS using different similarity measure with different datasets.In the first part, I applied PCA, MDS with euclidean distance and MDS with manhattan distance to see whether the classes are easy to differ or not. Then I compared these results. In the second part, I tried to reconstruct the Turkey map by reducing the distance matrix of the Turkey applying PCA. Lastly for the final part, I used distance occured(location) on 3D plot and most of the visualizations seemed similar to the gestures in the homework definition and for the b part I reduced the dimension of instances by using PCA. The data we worked on for the gesture recognition was from https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/13553neknux7U8why55KM1WrjgkA9IJKm .

## Homework 3
- [In this homework](Homework_3.html), we are asked to perform some train-test performance measures using different distance measures and cross-validation methods. We are also asked to perform Logistic Regression models with penalties and also with distance matrix.The data that we worked is UwaveGesture data which is a subject of previous homeworks. It can be reached from https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/13553neknux7U8why55KM1WrjgkA9IJKm. In the first part, I used sklearn library for K-NN Classifier but also for cross-validation. For the distance measures, I used euclidean and manhattan distance. Then I used 10-fold cross validation to decide on best K value for K-NN classifier and chose the best K based on their test data performances. I used concatanated, applied PCA data. For the second part, we manipulated the classes as if they are binary variables with respect to class 3. I used again sklearn Logistic Regression library which enables us to perform Lasso Regression. We again applied same CV procedure to decide on Lasso Penalty. Lastly, in the last part, we applied same model to the Distance Matrix of the existing data.

## Homework 4
- [In this homework](Homework_4.html), we are asked to come up with two representations to deal with Multiple Instance Learning problem. After finding two representation, we are also asked to apply these into two different models and get Cross Validation score on training data. For the first represetation, I created two arrays which is basically mean of the bag +- the standard deviation of the bag. Hence, our feature vector represented the sample statistics of the bag. For the second model, I found the most further points in the bag and concatanated them to use as feature vector. The related dataset can be found on https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Musk+(Version+1) . 

## Project 

- [In this project](ProjectReport.html), our main task is to build a classification model to predict the gender information with the given data provided by Trendyol.
- Related codes can be reach from [here](ProjectReport.jpynb)
